---
layout: post
title: Still
date: 2024-06-15 12:00:00 +0700
description: A short story
tags: [Fiction]
---
The shirt was still there in her closet; the edges frayed, the colors faded. The thread was worn, the letters peeling off, but there it lay, under a pile of much newer, freshly laundered clothing. There was really no point in keeping it. But still.

She was utterly drunk. She hadn’t been this drunk in… oh God had it really been eight years already? That one summer night when she and fifty or so of her friends crowded into a college bar on Amsterdam Avenue, despite them being far too old to be undergrads; despite it being far too early to get so embarrassingly sloshed.

She remembered drinking a lot. She couldn’t remember what she drank. She remembered having a long, animated conversation with one “friend” that she usually avoided at all costs. She couldn’t remember what they talked about. She remembered ending up on her bed, in her apartment, munching on an above-average bean-and-cheese burrito. She couldn’t remember how she — or the burrito — got there. She remembered waking up the next day, long past noon, wearing the shirt. She couldn’t remember changing into it.

On this particular drunken summer night, eight years later, she had once again ended up in her apartment — an apartment with a different name, in a different city, on a different continent. This time though, she wasn’t laying on her bed, but sitting cross-legged in front of her open closet, fingering the shirt.

She had made a point of trying not to wear it too often, to stave off the inevitable. Thinking back now, through her gin-induced haze, she realized it had been years since she had last worn it. She had brought it with her to different apartments, in different cities, on different continents. It had been with her through graduations, promotions, resignations, breakups, makeups and everything in between. 

He had given it to her the first time they had seen each other again after a long parting; after he had departed to one far-flung country, she to another, and they had met in the middle. It was not an especially personal gift; just a memento from a place he had visited, an insignificant yet somehow telling sign that he still thought of her. She had kissed him on the cheek and they promised they would keep in touch but they never did. They saw each other once or twice after that. She found that she could not say when she saw him last.

He still showed up in her dreams on occasion. Not as often as he used to. It would happen when she least expected it — she would go for months, even years without ever thinking about him, would be hard-pressed to describe what he looked like if anyone asked, would almost forget that he even existed; and there he would appear, in all his glory, making some inane comment about the weather. Or asking her if she wanted to go on a bike ride. Or announcing that aliens were about to invade.

In some of the dreams, he’d disappear almost as soon as he materialized. In some, they’d talk for what seemed like hours without ever touching. In some, they would just start making out, apropos of nothing. When she woke up, she would only half-remember the dream, but find that she still remembered almost everything about him. Tucked away safely in some remote corner of her mind (her heart?), she could still see the sharp glint of his eyes when he made a particularly pointed joke, still hear the low drawl of his voice when he told her a secret, still feel the warm flush of his cheeks when he got embarrassed, or angry. 

She found that she still remembered how he used to call her at all hours to talk about nothing in particular. How he used to grimace at her when she made a terrible pun. But try as she might, she couldn’t remember quite how his lips tasted when he kissed her. Or precisely how her heart broke when he said goodbye.

By now, they had not seen or spoken to each other for far longer than they had ever been together. Once or twice a year, she would contemplate emailing him, or maybe messaging him on Instagram. But what would she say? Hey, remember me? Hey, you looked good in that last photo you posted. Hey, I had a dream about you. Hey, I still have your shirt.

She had this inexplicable knack for getting back things that she had given up for lost. She liked to think that this was the universe’s messed-up way of apologizing for gifting her with the penchant for misplacing things in the first place. 

Once, after a night out, her wallet had gotten wedged between the cushions in the backseat of a cab. The driver texted her before she even realized it was missing, insisted on driving across town to get it back to her, and earnestly said “God bless you” when she gave him a hefty tip for his pains. A water bottle forgotten in a random cafe that she would never visit again somehow ended up couriered to her a week later. A very fancy ballpoint pen left in a bookstore in a country she went to on vacation — for the first and probably last time — turned up in the mail after a month.

On the days that she believed in an interventionist God — which were getting fewer and farther between — she would half-pray, half-wish that he’d pop up just around the corner. She’d gladly give up any number of wallets, or water bottles, or very fancy pens in exchange for this one last apparition. 

They’d hug like old friends. They’d catch up on how they’ve been doing all these years they’ve been apart. They’d laugh about how she still had the shirt. They’d kiss each other lightly and wish each other good luck. He’d walk away around the same corner he came from with a casual wave and this time she would never forget what his lips felt like. It was pretty modest as prayers went, but she didn’t want to give the guy upstairs any excuse — any more excuse — to refuse her.

As she absently rubbed the fabric of the shirt — in a sudden burst of the kind of absolute certainty afforded only to drunks and little children — she saw what would happen next. She would change into the shirt and go to bed. She would dream of him: they’d be on a tropical beach wearing thick winter parkas and he’d ask her if she still had the shirt, and then promptly vanish before she could answer. Then her editor would show up and scold her for missing the filing deadline. Then the president would give a heartfelt speech about the impending apocalypse. Then the sky would start falling. Come morning, she’d wake up in a panic and forget most of the dream. She wouldn’t remember how she ended up in her bed, wearing the shirt. She’d take it off, fold it with more care than she ever folded anything, and tuck it safely back into the corner of her still open closet.

He probably did remember her, if only vaguely. He did look good in the last photo he posted, but then again he had never not looked good to her. He would keep showing up in her dreams, maybe even when she was old and gray. He had, in all likelihood, long forgotten about the shirt. She would never see him again. But still.

END
